11.1.0 SP RNs (#9895)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/releasenotes/studio-pro/11/11.1.md

---
title: "11.1"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.0 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 99
---

## 11.1.0

**Release date: July ___, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.1.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.1.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features
    

> - We added a new, experimental Java API called `Core.createOqlStatement` to execute OQL statements, and we implemented OQL `DELETE` statements to delete objects in bulk directly in the database without having to instantiate them in the runtime.

Author: New docs needed? Component unclear.

Reviewer: See Slack.

- We made it so you can add a query parameter at any request in the Consumed REST Service document through the Query Parameters grid or through the URL editor.
- We added support for uploading images and PDF files for your questions in [Maia for Domain Model](/refguide/maia-for-domain-model/).
- We added support for access keys in context menus. The following editors are supported: domain model, microflow, page, mapping, and workflow.
- We added support for getting the URL of a stored file using the new Client API. You can now use `getFileUrl` from `mx-api/data` to get the URL pointing a stored file.
- We introduced a new core feature in Studio Pro called **Call Hierarchy**. This functionality allows you to visualize both incoming and outgoing calls for documents such as microflows, nanoflows, pages, and more. For more information, see [Call Hierarchy Pane](/refguide/call-hierarchy-pane/).

> - We added a page setting to configure autofocus behavior, giving developers more control over accessibility and user experience. Autofocus is set to **Desktop only** on all existing pages for backwards compatibility, and set to **Off** for new pages.

Author: My PR. I need to link to this PR's doc: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/9848/files

---
title: "11.1"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.0 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 99
---

## 11.1.0

**Release date: July ___, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.1.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.1.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features
    
- We added a new, experimental [Runtime API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/runtime-api-11/) call, `Core.createOqlStatement`, to execute OQL statements.
- We implemented [OQL `DELETE`](/refguide/oql-delete-statement/) statements to delete objects in bulk directly in the database without having to instantiate them in the runtime.
- You can now add a query parameter at any request in the Consumed REST Service document through the Query Parameters grid or through the URL editor.

> - We added support for uploading images and PDF files for your questions in [Maia for Domain Model](/refguide/maia-for-domain-model/).

Reviewer: "Questions" or "Requests"?

Author: Good question I don't know the answer to. @Yiyun333 what's the right word?

Reviewer 2: @ConnorLand Mark's suggestion is good!

> - We added support for access keys in context menus. The following editors are supported: domain model, microflow, page, mapping, and workflow.

Reviewer: Not sure what this means. Is this key like in authentication, or key as in key bindings, or something else?

Author: @Yiyun333 can clarify this? Also, do you think this change requires an additional doc update?

I assume it's talking about access key codes being passed along via logic or something, but I am not sure.

Reviewer 2: @ConnorLand @MarkvanMents I looked into Jira and found that access keys, in the context of the “context menu,” refer to keyboard shortcuts that users can press to navigate to specific items. I don’t think we need to revise the release note, as the context there is already clear.

> - We added support for getting the URL of a stored file using the new Client API. You can now use `getFileUrl` from `mx-api/data` to get the URL pointing a stored file.

Reviewer: Link to Client API?

Author: Will do.

- We introduced a new core feature in Studio Pro called **Call Hierarchy**. This functionality allows you to visualize both incoming and outgoing calls for documents such as microflows, nanoflows, pages, and more. For more information, see [Call Hierarchy Pane](/refguide/call-hierarchy-pane/).
- We added a page setting to configure autofocus behavior, giving developers more control over accessibility and user experience. Autofocus is set to **Desktop only** on all existing pages for backwards compatibility, and set to **Off** for new pages.

The available configuration options are as follows:

| Value | Behavior |
|-------|----------|
| Off | No autofocus |
| Desktop only | Autofocus is only enabled on desktop devices (computers/laptops) |

> | All platforms | Autofocus is enabled on all devices (desktop, mobile, tablets) |

Reviewer: Indent - should be under previous bullet?

Author: Because there is a table, I intentionally left this info not inline. Do we normally indent tables to be inline?

Reviewer: I think we should if we can, otherwise it isn't clear that the table is related to the bullet point.
I _think_ this will work but check a local build to make sure it doesn't break the page.

Author: Done https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/9895/commits/7feab3d0e85c8fbc76f9477b461d626c1c6ab7b5

### Improvements
    

> - We modestly improved the memory consumption of object attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We slightly improved the memory consumption of object attributes.
```

- We improved the `toString` implementation of the `IMendixObjectMember` Java API to include useful data, such as name and value.
- We made various improvements to the logic editors:
    - We now include Change Object activities when finding Entity usages. (Ticket 249539)
    - When expanding loops after inserting elements into them, connected objects are now also moved aside.
    - When resizing an element, connected annotations are now moved the same way as other elements.
- We have defined a list of associations: `System.WorkflowActivityRecord_Actor`, `System.WorkflowActivityRecord_TaskAssignedUsers`, and `System.WorkflowActivityRecord_TaskTargetedUsers`. Non-persistable objects referencing the current user through any of these associations will no longer be prevented from being garbage collected.

> - The Chinese, Korean, and Japanese versions of the Studio Pro UI are now in general availability (GA). Please see [documentation](/refguide/preferences-dialog/#language) for more information.

Reviewer: Is there a PR for this - the doc currently says they are in Beta.
Link should also be "See **Language** section of *Preferences*"

Author: Done

- Buttons to **Choose branch line** and **Open in Studio Pro** are now always visible in the **Open App** window.
- We now allow the `session` and `parser` API's from `mx-api` to be used in pluggable widgets as well. They can be imported from `mendix/session` and `mendix/parser` with your widget code.
- We added the `formatValue` and `parseValue` methods from the legacy `mx.parser` API to the new client API.
- We updated the bundled Node.js from v20 to v22.
- We improved the On Change action of the Tab Container widget. 
    * Now, no attribute is required and the action is triggered whenever the tab is changed. We changed the caption for the attribute setting from **Attribute** to **Active tab index**.
- We improved the External Database Connector so you can dynamically modify connection settings at runtime by configuring connection parameters in the Query External Database microflow activity.

### Fixes

* <a id="fix-runtime-only-changes"></a> We fixed a known issue that occurred when locally re-running an app with runtime-only changes while using the React client. Changes are now properly loaded by the runtime.

> * <a id="fix-debugger-reconnect"></a> We fixed a known issue where where the debugger would not reconnect when restarting an app when using the React client.

Reviewer: Known Issues

- We fixed an issue where trying to retrieve more than 500 external objects by ID at once would fail. For example, when retrieving many external objects by association. (Ticket 251911)
- We fixed an issue with MxBuild that reported successful build before the build process has finished. (Ticket #252729)
- We fixed an issue in offline synchronization that could result in error log statements and System.SynchronizationError objects containing a text like "Changing member failed for security reasons. No write access for changed member" which was caused by the offline client trying to synchronize a change for a member that was inaccessible by that user.
- We save a file name when saving a document while being offline.
- We fixed a Native only issue that causes synchronize action to prompt error on specific scenarios. (Ticket 250114)
- We fixed an issue in offline apps that could result in significant longer synchronization times when large data sets are synchronized with a lot of associations.

> - Fixed an error in native offline apps which causes upgrade from Mendix 10.12 or earlier to cause error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We fixed an error in native offline apps which causes upgrade from Mendix 10.12 or earlier to cause an error.
```

- We fixed an issue in offline apps where the use of offline entities in XPath constraints of online entities (and the use of online entities in XPath constraints of offline entities) was not properly prohibited.
- We fixed an issue in online entities used in offline apps where associations from online entities to offline entities could result into errors while saving data and calling microflows (errors like 
`java.lang.NumberFormatException: For input string: "GUID:[...]"`).
- We have fixed a caching issue for React applications that have precaching enabled. (Ticket 250116)
- We fixed an issue in which an unconfigured input widget displayed two separate consistency errors pointing to the same problem.

- We fixed an issue where closing a page from a microflow could still trigger data source retrievals on that page. (Ticket 239900) 

- We fixed an issue where in some scenarios, the import of a module containing widgets would overwrite the widgets in the project without checking the version.
- We fixed an issue where during module import the widget version check was incorrectly comparing different widgets. (Ticket 252131)

> - We fixed a recurring Oops dialog being caused by showing conditional hidden properties when configuring pluggable widgets through the properties pane, such as data grid 2 columns. (Tickets 254074, 254426, 254632, 254637)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We fixed a recurring Oops dialog being caused by showing conditional hidden properties, such as Data Grid 2 columns, when configuring pluggable widgets through the properties pane. (Tickets 254074, 254426, 254632, 254637)
```

Author: We lowercase widgets when speaking about them generically, and uppercase them when linking to their marketplace pages. I know it looks weird, but I think we should do "data grid 2" for consistency with this practice.

Reviewer: OK - but do you think it reads better with the example of the property next to the word property rather than at the end where it looks like data grid 2 columns are part of the property pane, rather than a property that you are configuring?

- We fixed displaying parenthesis for excluded documents in App Explorer.
- We added the ability to remove Mendix Studio Pro versions directly from the Version Selector interface when traditional uninstallation fails due to corrupted Windows registry paths, providing users with a manual cleanup option.

> - Fixed an issue in the App Selector where users encountered crashes and error messages while trying to "Choose Branch Line" of an app after switching between different user accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We fixed an issue in the App Selector where users encountered crashes and error messages while trying to "Choose Branch Line" of an app after switching between different user accounts.
```

> - We fixed the issue that the runtime loglevels were not restored correctly when restarting the app from Studio Pro, in case the runtime was stopped earlier due to the trial version timeout. (Ticket 251399)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We fixed the issue that the runtime loglevels were not restored correctly when restarting the app from Studio Pro if the runtime was stopped earlier due to the trial version timeout. (Ticket 251399)
```

- We fixed an issue for Import and Export Mappings that caused checkboxes in the 'Select schema elements' tree structure to be set incorrectly. (Tickets 251136, 250682, 227036, and 250266)
- We now correctly render the warning message for the assocation storage in the association properties dialog. This was not word-wrapped which caused part of the text to be unreadable.
- We fixed an issue in consumed OData services where clients reading large amounts of data would lead to errors related to database connections. (Ticket 251379)
- We fixed an issue in the Call External Action activity which caused a consistency warning about variables not being used even when they were used in an argument expression.

> - We fixed an issue in the consistency checks of published OData services. The insertable, updatable and deletable capabilities now have a consistency check that requires choosing a microflow when the user chooses *Call a microflow*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We fixed an issue in the consistency checks of published OData services. The insertable, updatable, and deletable capabilities now have a consistency check that requires choosing a microflow when the user chooses *Call a microflow*.
```

- We fixed an issue where a loop in a microflow did not execute if the first activity was disabled. (Ticket 253542)
- We fixed an issue where conflicting versions of userlib jars did not give a consistency warning if the project has no managed dependencies configured.
- We fixed an issue where the tracing service name configuration could not be changed.
- We fixed an issue where some OpenTelemetry configurations would not apply.
- We fixed an issue where you were unable to commit unsaved documents while rebasing.
- We fixed an issue where new files created while rebasing were not added to the commit.
- We fixed an issue where selecting 'Resolve conflict using server' for a conflicted file did not solve the conflict.
- We fixed an issue where HTML anchor and area elements without a 'href' attribute, would interrupt the autofocus behavior, not allowing users to focus to the next item in order.
- We fixed an issue in the React client, where autofocus would not work when navigating to another page.
- We fixed the React client logging a message to the console to download the React Devtools when opening an app locally.

> - In Dojo client, we fixed popups resizing while interacting with a combobox inside the popup on mobile devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the Dojo client, we fixed popups resizing while interacting with a combobox inside the popup on mobile devices.
```

- We improved the notification system to alert users that third-party antivirus software (Microsoft Defender excepted) may impact system performance.
- We improved the item order in the **Go to** dialog in Studio Pro when searching to make more relevant items appear higher in the list. (Ticket 221215)
- We improved the quality of Korean and Chinese translations for error, warning, and deprecation messages.
- We improved the warning message shown when running an OQL query in view entities. When a query refers to '[%CurrentUser%]' and **App Security** is not toggled off, the warning message disappears as soon as the user is specified.
- We improved published REST services in Studio Pro so you can now download OpenAPI files, even when unrelated parts of the app are inconsistent.
- We improved the logging of published OData services so the **Debug** and **Trace** log levels of the `ConnectionBus_Retrieve` log node now log XPaths of requests.
- We removed the legacy toolbox in favor of the modernized **Toolbox**.
- Page, snippet, and action variables are now automatically mapped to microflow and nanoflow parameters that share the same name.

> - We enabled persistent mode for storing file data in offline PWAs. This enables larger storage quotas (browser dependent) and the data will not be evicted in case of low disk space or if the offline PWA is not regularly used. In some browsers this may lead to a browser popup asking for permission. 

Author: I'll check if a PR / doc update is needed from Front End.

Author: Already got it: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/9808/files
